\section{Textual DSL using XText}
\label{sec.xtext}

\noindent To help the sales clerk in their everyday tasks we have developed a
textual DSL using \emph{XText} framework. A textual language can speed up the
process of creating bicycle models and user data. Because of the nature of text
files,
sales clerk can easily copy and edit already created model instances.\\

\noindent We have used an Extended Backus-Naur Form (EBNF) metalanguage
notations to describe a textual DSL. Our textual DSL is external, meaning that
it is new, not extending an existing language. As we have identified the
entities, abstract types, properties and relations in the \emph{Ecore}
meta-model, we use \emph{XText} to generate the textual DSL. Generated grammar
was modified for our needs. The final grammar definition is listed in Figure
\ref{appendix.xtext}. It is extendible and context-free.\\

\noindent The grammar is rich, having types for entities, attribute names,
enumerators and other details. This is used to provide context assistance in the
tools. When using the textual DSL, the editor executes syntax checking (Figure
\ref{fig.dsl_empty_model}) and suggests code completion (Figures
\ref{fig.dsl_autocomplete_parts}, \ref{fig.dsl_autocomplete_values}). The user
also gets help on what parts are left to define. Moreover, the keywords and
class names are differentiated with syntax highlighting. The target user (sales
clerk) might not have any programming experience, so we want the language to
seem natural. Therefore statement terminators, such as symbols or line feeds,
are not used. Excluding separators from the grammar further simplifies the
layout. Because of the nature of text files, user can easily copy and edit
already created model instances(delete).

